Run Redis Locally:
Install Redis for your platform or use Docker: redis-server (if installed locally).
By default, Redis runs on localhost:6379.

Redis requires Linux system or Docker, 

Configure Redis via Docker with the following commands:-

2. Pull the Redis Docker Image
To run Redis using Docker, you first need to pull the Redis image from Docker Hub. Run the following command in your terminal (PowerShell, WSL, or any terminal):

docker pull redis


3. Run Redis in Docker
Once the Redis image is pulled, you can start a Redis container. Use the following command:

docker run --name redis -p 6379:6379 -d redis

4. Verify Redis is Running
To check if Redis is running, use:

docker ps
This will show a list of all running containers. You should see the Redis container listed.

You can also check Redis’s logs to confirm it started successfully:


docker logs redis

5. Access Redis (Optional)
You can interact with Redis inside the Docker container using the redis-cli. To run Redis CLI in the container, use:

docker exec -it redis redis-cli
This will open an interactive session with Redis. You can then test Redis commands like PING:


127.0.0.1:6379> PING
PONG

6. Stop the Redis Container
To stop the running Redis container, you can use:


docker stop redis
This will stop the container but leave it in a stopped state, which you can start again later.

7. Remove the Redis Container (Optional)
If you want to remove the Redis container completely, use:


docker rm redis
If you want to remove the Redis container and the image, you can run:


docker rm redis
docker rmi redis


WSL can be installed on Windows via WSL using the following steps:-

1. Enable WSL
Open PowerShell as an administrator.

Run the following command to enable the WSL feature:

wsl --install

This command:

Installs WSL.
Installs the latest version of the Linux kernel.
Installs a default Linux distribution (usually Ubuntu).
If this command fails or gives an error, you may need to manually enable the features:

powershell

dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart
dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:VirtualMachinePlatform /all /norestart
Restart your computer if prompted.

2. Install a Linux Distribution
If you didn’t specify a distribution during the installation, the default is Ubuntu. To choose another:

Open Microsoft Store and search for "Linux".
Select a distribution, such as Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, or Kali Linux, and click Install.
3. Set Up Your Linux Distribution
Open the installed Linux distribution from the Start Menu or type the distribution name (e.g., Ubuntu) in the Command Prompt or PowerShell.
Set up a username and password for the Linux environment.
4. Verify Installation
Run the following in PowerShell to check your WSL version and installed distributions:

powershell

wsl --list --verbose
To use the latest version of WSL (WSL2), ensure the VERSION column says 2. If not, upgrade with:
powershell

wsl --set-version <distro-name> 2


Then proceed to install Redis:-

For Ubuntu/Debian

sudo apt update
sudo apt install redis

For CentOS/RHEL

sudo yum install redis

For macOS (Using Homebrew)


brew install redis

Verifying the Installation
After installation, you can start the Redis server and check its status:

redis-server --version